## Self - Assessment: 
### Overview:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;There are many different aspects to my programming projects that I believe showcase my strengths in the computer science industry. I think to start, showing my capability of understand multiple languages shows my versatility. During my time within the Computer Science Software Engineering program at Southern New Hampshire I learned a good amount of technical skills and techniques that will last a lifetime and that are directly used while working within the field. There are many skills less technical than the others, but all of them are critical to making a successful real-world application. I think programs that have the ability to use or be changed into more than one language can be extremely powerful in the software engineering realm. Both the data structures and algorithms project were based off of the Java programming language. I think these projects show my understanding of object-oriented programming and algorithms, including traversal methods and search options. Finally, for the database project I created it in MongoDB with the Python language. This artifact helped to show my understanding of databases and how to correctly implement API's with CRUD operations.
 
### Team Environments:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;When it comes to collaborating in a team environment, I believe that I learned the most from using Git when it comes to programming. I only used Github a handfull of times before I started at SNHU, so learning how to commit, pull, and set up a dashboard helped me to better understand Git. I think that this is the primary source of team environments and collaboration in today's work enviroment. Knowing how to use Git is important for any team environment. The same holds true for any repository. 

### Communicating to Stakeholders:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I do not think that my projects directly communicate with stakeholders, but I believe that they can see their own system implementented into the things I have done. It might not be catter for them at the given moment but I can be redone to benefit them further. I have a clear derivative for each of my programs and am able to  meet the goals. It is important when communicating to stake holders that you can establish what your project can and can not do, how it can and can not be implemented, and a complete pathway forward to completeion.

### Software Design and Engineering
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Software engineering is the focus of all of the projects. Although, the focus was to enhance the projects, correct mistakes, take out anything extra and add anything that might of been a second thought. I also believe I showed my software engineering skills in different ways in the data structures & algorithms project and the database project. Adding and updating the code was a challenge as it has been a while since I have dealt with these projects but I believe I was able to be successful and make improvements upon the original code. The database program which was a full stack project made use of many different frameworks and packages. All of which led to a functional database.  

### Data Structures and Algorithms
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Data structures and algorithms are the primary focus of the second artifact. Overall, I think  that I was able to convey my understanding of data structures in this artifact pretty well. I used both a singly linked list and a binary tree for the data structures. Each of these methods hold data in different ways. I believe having two data structures instead of one was beneficial to showing my ability of creating data structures. I also used a few different traversal methods for these data structures. These algorithms allow for traversing through the data structures at a quick efficiency, along with searching through the linked list correctly. Data structures and algorithms are the backbone to a large amount of software engineering, and I believe I was able to correctly convey my skill in these categories.

### Database
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My artifact for the database project was created using MongoDB, JavaScript, Node.JS, Express and Mongoose. There are a few components for this database and I found this artifact the most challenging out of all of them since it dealt with the front end, back end, a database and then connecting them. The database is primarily a restful API that uses the standard CRUD methods. MongoDB is the database that is used to store information such as indexes, documents, and models. This project was by far the most difficult, I struggled with the database project the more than any other project to date but it showed me that I at least have a decent grasp on databases and how to correctly implement them into a project. Although the algorithms are fairly simple, I believe I was able to implemented them in conjunction with the .xlsl files with reading and writing included with Pandas.

### Security
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Society’s increasing reliance upon the internet for things like finance and communication means that cybercrime promises to be even more profitable in the future. Cybercrime is a huge industry and is here to stay. Companies need to prepare properly to combat it and programmers can help combat cybercrimes by using the set coding standards. 

### Reason for Inclusion: 
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I decided to chose these three artifacts because I believe they show different skills in the computer science industry. The code conversion, variables updates, structure, arithmetic operations, loops and defensive programming all focus on my software engineering and language skills. The data structures focus primarily on my object-oriented programming skills and the database focuses on the understanding of how to develop and implement a fullstack. These programs do not function together but they all show separate skills that I think are extremely useful when programming. Overall, I believe I was able to convey my skills and accurately portray them in my portfolio and am looking forward to what the future brings for me with in the software engineering industry. 
